#summary Installation and Configuration Guide
#labels Featured

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= What's in the Distribution? = 

The distribution comes with the core SSA4J libraries and extensions for Professional and Enterprise editions of Screen-Scraper.  This distribution also comes bundled with all 3rd party dependencies.

*SSA4J Core* (and 3rd party dependencies)

 /ssa4j-core.jar

 /lib/core/`*`.jar

*SSA4J Professional Extensions*

 /ssa4j-pro.jar

*SSA4J Enterprise Extensions* (and 3rd party dependencies)

 /ssa4j-ent.jar

 /lib/enterprise/`*`.jar

*SSA4J Mock Extensions* (and 3rd party dependencies)

 /ssa4j-mock.jar

 /lib/mock/`*`.jar

= Installing SSA4J =

There isn't much to installing SSA4J.  All that is required is that you place all the JARs in your classpath.  If you do not own the Enterprise edition then you can exclude any JAR related to the Enterprise Extensions.  Likewise, if you aren't using the Mock Extensions, then leave out those JARs as well.

*NOTE* SSA4J assumes that you already have an installation of either [http://www.screen-scraper.com/download/pro_choose_platform.php Screen-Scraper Professional] or [http://www.screen-scraper.com/download/enterprise_choose_platform.php Screen-Scraper Enterprise]. SSA4J *WILL NOT WORK* with the [http://www.screen-scraper.com/download/basic_choose_platform.php Screen-Scraper Basic Edition].

*NOTE* SSA4J comes with three Extensions (Professional, Enterprise, and Mock).  All three require SSA4J Core.  You can safely run them all together if you want to mix and match extensions within a single application.  That said, you MUST include at least one Extension for SSA4J to function. 


  